New RSTUF Guide (#341)
repository-service-tuf/repository-service-tuf: docs/source/guide/general/client.rst

`client example application <https://github.com/theupdateframework/python-tuf/tree/develop/examples/client>`_
to get started.

Existing client
---------------

For existing client implementations ready for download and update artifacts,
metadata download and validation functionality can be integrated using a TUF library available in a variety of
application languages.

.. list-table:: TUF libraries
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 15 75

    * - Language
      - Project
    * - Python
      - `python-tuf <https://theupdateframework.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html>`_
    * - JavaScript
      - `tuf-js <https://github.com/theupdateframework/tuf-js>`_
    * - Go
      - `go-tuf <https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/theupdateframework/go-tuf/client>`_
    * - Rust
      - `rust-tuf <https://github.com/theupdateframework/rust-tuf>`_

.. note:: Not all TUF libraries support all features of the TUF specification.
   If the TUF library required is not compatible with RSTUF or does not exist
   yet, it may be necessary to file a bug on the relevant repository, or
   `reach out to the TUF community <https://theupdateframework.io/contact/>`_.

Bootstrap trust
===============

> To bootstrap initial trust relationship with the metadata repository, a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To bootstrap an initial trust relationship with the metadata repository, a
```

##########
TUF Client
##########

> RSTUF makes it easy to host and manage TUF metadata for your content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RSTUF makes it easy to host and manage TUF metadata for a content
```

repository.

> In order to effectively protect your clients, they must download or update
> artifacts from your content repository along with metadata served by RSTUF,
> and interpret them in a TUF-compliant way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to effectively protect client implementations, 
artifacts from the content repository along with metadata served by RSTUF must be downloaded or updated. These artifacts can then be interpreted in a TUF-compliant way.
```

.. uml::

    @startuml
        actor User as User
        User -> Client: Download artifact vX.Y.Z
        group TUF Client
            collections TUF as "TUF Metadata"
            Client -> TUF: Request metadata

            Artifact --> Client: Fetch artifact vX.Y.Z
        end
        Client -> User: Artifact vX.Y.Z
    @enduml

> RSTUF itself does not provide client-side tools, but there are several TUF
> libraries that you can use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RSTUF itself does not provide client-side tools, but there are several TUF
libraries available.
```

TUF client implementation
=========================

> Depending on whether you already have an existing client application the
> following options exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a number of options for new or existing client applications.
```

New client
----------

> If you don't have a client implementation, you should consider using
> python-tuf's `ngclient <https://theupdateframework.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api/tuf.ngclient.html>`_.
> It can download and validate metadata and artifacts in a fully specification-compliant way.
> Moreover, RSTUF is built with python-tuf and guaranteed to be compatible with *ngclient*. See
> `client example application <https://github.com/theupdateframework/python-tuf/tree/develop/examples/client>`_
> to get started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To establish a new client implementation, consider using
python-tuf's `ngclient <https://theupdateframework.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api/tuf.ngclient.html>`_.
It can download and validate metadata and artifacts in a fully specification-compliant way.
Moreover, RSTUF is built with python-tuf and guaranteed to be compatible with *ngclient*. See
`client example application <https://github.com/theupdateframework/python-tuf/tree/develop/examples/client>`_
to get started.
```

Existing client
---------------

> If you do have a client to download and update artifacts, you can integrate
> metadata download and validation functionality using a TUF library available in your
> application language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For existing client implementations ready for download and update artifacts,
metadata download and validation functionality can be integrated using a TUF library available in a variety of
application languages.
```

.. list-table:: TUF libraries
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 15 75

    * - Language
      - Project
    * - Python
      - `python-tuf <https://theupdateframework.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html>`_
    * - JavaScript
      - `tuf-js <https://github.com/theupdateframework/tuf-js>`_
    * - Go
      - `go-tuf <https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/theupdateframework/go-tuf/client>`_
    * - Rust
      - `rust-tuf <https://github.com/theupdateframework/rust-tuf>`_

.. note:: Not all TUF libraries support all features of the TUF specification.

>    If the TUF library you need is not compatible with RSTUF or does not exist
>    yet, you should file a bug on the relevant repository, or
>    `reach out to the TUF community <https://theupdateframework.io/contact/>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If the TUF library required is not compatible with RSTUF or does not exist
   yet, it may be necessary to file a bug on the relevant repository, or
   `reach out to the TUF community <https://theupdateframework.io/contact/>`_.
```

Bootstrap trust
===============

To bootstrap initial trust relationship with the metadata repository, a
client application needs to be initialized with root metadata. This can be
provided out-of-band, as part of the client application, or via
Trust-on-first-use (TOFU). TOFU is demonstrated in the python-tuf
`client example application <https://github.com/theupdateframework/python-tuf/tree/develop/examples/client>`_.

> Once initial trust is established any subsequent trust changes can be adopted by
> the client in-band, including root key rotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once initial trust is established, any subsequent trust changes can be adopted by
the client in-band, including root key rotation.
```
